# Plenum 2021-01-19 Minutes

## Venue
- [Zoom](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/88972534059?pwd=K2ptVnNGVk9EVnptZWkrdTYwYmJxZz09)

## 20:06 Open

## Credentials
- Present: Valentine, Bob, Dyana, Robert, Brahim, Jen, Roland
- Apologies: Keng Hui

## Reports

### Regulatory

#### ACRA
- **OK** Due 30 Apr 2021. We have signed and returned documents to Koh; pending their confirmation of receipt.

#### IRAS
- **OK** YA2020 C-S filed about late November.
- **OK** Due 31 Dec 2020: YA2021 ECI filed about mid December.

### Finance

#### Cash
- **$22.4K** in the bank as of 1 Jan 2021

#### Accrual (up/down $?/month)
- Including predicted upcoming costs amortised monthly, we are **_down_ $1,195.23** a month.

#### Significant changes to regular expenses (if any)
| Regular Expenses                 | Amount | Frequency | Monthly Cost (amortised)
| --                               | --     | --        | --
| Rental                           | 3400   | 12        | $ 3,400.00
| Utilities (est'd)                | 450    | 12        | $ 450.00
| Internet                         | 148    | 12        | $ 148.00
| CorpSec                          | 240    | 2         | $ 40.00
| Accounting/Corp Services (est'd) | 3000   | 1         | $ 250.00
| Aircon                           | 980    | 1         | $ 81.67
| Cleaning (est'd)                 | 80     | 26        | $ 173.34
| Income Tax (est'd)               | 600    | 1         | $ 50.00
|                                  |        |           | $ 4,593.01

### Memberships
1. (Bob) Update on new members (if any).
  - downgrades
    - Shing 128 -> 0
    - Adrian O. 16 -> 0
  - upgrades
    - Chu Junhao 0 -> 64
    - Joyce Ng 0 -> 64
    - Woo Huiren 0 -> 64
    - Clara 0 -> 64

2. Current membership breakdown by tiers.

| Tier | Count |
| --   | --    |
| 16   | 4     |
| 32   | 1     |
| 64   | 18    |
| 128  | 13    |
| 256  | 1     |
| 512  | 1     |

Note: Live data for finances/memberships is in the membership register

## Ongoing business

### Change of directorship and bank signatories
- (Bob, Robert, Dyana, Jen, Valentine) Jen/Valentine have submitted forms to SCB for change of signatories; pending SCB response.

### Broken and Orphaned Items
- (Valentine) Updates if any.
  - No progress at this time.
  - Reminder that OHP is not an invitation to unilaterally remove stuff from the space, there is a process, including ownerships and dibs claims, and someone running it.

### Rewording of Membership Tiers
- Pull request: https://github.com/hackerspacesg/hackerspace.sg/pull/171
  - OK to merge as is, but hold off merging until change of directors.
  - In the meantime, notice to community and concessionary members and about proposed change and inviting comment ahead of implementation at change of directorship, expected at about the end of the month.
  - (Roland) Draft notice and provide to Valentine.
  - (Jen and/or Valentine) Send notice to community and concessionary members.
  - (Valentine) Draft the sorts of tasks that community and concessionary members are to be asked to undertake

### Membership Marketing and Website Revamp
- (Robert, Valentine) Update on revamp.
- (Robert) Site generator changes are almost ready, but in orphaned branch; will push into separate branch and test on our hosting provider. Minimal content changes are expected.
- Valentine has been speaking to potential UI/UX/designer persons to review the overall site structure and flow. Expects to report progress at next plenum.
- (Valeninte) Copy house rules membership PIN email to somewhere suitable on the current website.

### Upcoming events that HackerspaceSG might be interested in
- FOSSASIA in March (largely online)
 - (Roland) Sort out HackerspaceSG participation. Promoting HackerspaceSG is encouraged. Details to follow.
 - No information about Maker Faire at present.

## New business

### Storage Boxes
- (Valentine, Roland) Propose to implement a policy of keeping _all_ personal items and projects in stackable [22L/45L IKEA SAMLA boxes](https://www.ikea.com/sg/en/p/samla-box-transparent-90180940/).
- V has hypotheses that members prefer to keep their stuff around their preferred desks, that some people might not like taking out individual items from their lockers, and that it's easier to keep everything into a nearby box at the end of their day.
- Spare boxes can be used to enforce [Flat Surface Pattern](https://wiki.hackerspaces.org/The_Flat_Surface_Pattern).
- All members get 1x 22L box with their membership. All boxes are to be clearly labelled. 4x6" label printer coming soon.
- Members (in some tiers?) can subscribe to additional boxes, like for lockers.
- Multiple stacking areas around the space. Shelves might be bought and installed.
- Dyana notes that any stack of > 2 Samlas is annoying to retrieve items from, based on very annoying personal experience; shelves are probably a good idea.
- (Valentine) Reach out to Meng and invite/encourage/urge him to remove his part of the library
- (Valentine) OHP the rest of the books
- (Valentine) Once some space is available, get a pile of boxes and start operating a first iteration of the pattern.

### Shifting of Hardware Room
- (Valentine) Received some feedback from visitors over the past few months that we should put more focus on the hardware area.
- Propose to move the hardware section to the front room.
- Window to the front room should be used as a gallery to display projects we've done (maybe 3D prints?).
- (Valentine) Draft a proposal for the intended end state for both front and back rooms. Iterate to consensus. May not have a proposal by next plenum.

### Large groups during Phase 3
- (Valentine) Seeking clarification on our policy for hosting large (>8 people) groups during Phase 3.
- What should members do if someone goes against the policy?
- Agreement that it's appropriate to send a mailout to the membership about the current status of covid controls.
- (Valentine) Assess obligations, draft policy and notice for posting on the wall and sending to members.
- Important response cases include:
  - Each member is responsible for not putting the space out of compliance; if their entry does so then they must leave.
  - Each member is responsible for managing any guests that they are hosting, including removing any who act outside the law, including in particular exceeding group size limits.
  - Each member is encouraged to act if they witness others operating outside covid limits, including e.g.
    - Inviting excess people in the space to leave
    - Inviting another member in the space to ask the excess people to do so instead
    - Contacting another member outside the space and requesting assistance.

## Any Other Business

- A/C noise
  - It's been going on forever. Continue living with it.
- Hardware room
  - Building management "looking into this matter and is speeding up to get quotations"

## Next Meeting
- Chinese New Year day 1 is 2021-02-12.
- 2021-02-16 20:00 tentative (tentatively scheduled for 3rd Tuesday of every month, but subject to change depending on the schedule of key people)

### 22:10 Close
