---
title: "2022-03-15"
---

# Plenum 2022-03-15 Minutes

<!-- Standing reminder: please copy and paste the agenda into an editor with autosave like Wikimedia's Etherpad, to avoid issues with system crashes -->

## Venue

- [Jitsi](https://meet.jit.si/moderated/bc262a32af0f10ea1c96399f8455f11c91d98f5d29603edba6b4c2a588257b97)

## 20:25 Open

## Credentials

- Present: Kheng Hui, Huiren, Joyce, Jen, Samuel, Valentine
- Apologies: Junhao

## Reports

### Regulatory (Valentine)
- ACRA Annual Report: Up to date. Next due 30 Apr 2022.
- IRAS tax filing done for YA2021; next one is due 30 Nov 2022 for YA 2022.
- IRAS: ECI: Up to date: Next due 31 Dec 2022.
- Jen asked Corp Sec whether we are up to date with the ECI filing.
  - Corp Sec has replied; may need to check on the specifics re: ACRA.

### Finance (Jen)
- Hard to predict where finances are going based on current input.
- Would have been better without the move.
- Chasing down membership payments will help fix our deficit somewhat.
- Grant would help, or something else, e.g. selling Bitcoin.

#### Cash
- **$21.3K** in the StanChart+PayPal as of 1 March 2022.
  - Actually **$6.3K**, because we took a $15K interest-free loan.
  - (Jen) Statements imported into QuickBooks have never tallied with our bank account.
- **$2.22K*** in GitHub Sponsors as of 15 March 2022.
- **0.66914519** in BTC.

- Pending claims from Valentine
  - M1 ($300), SP ($600) bills since Jan.
  - Fire extinguishers ($120).
  - Renovation and move stuff to be claimed:
    - e.g. Tables and chairs.
    - Details to be retrieved from Valentine's Google Pay transaction log.

#### Accrual (up/down $?/month)
- Including predicted upcoming costs amortised monthly, we are **_down_ $0.5K** a month.

#### Significant changes to regular expenses (if any)

| Regular Expenses                 | Amount | Frequency | Monthly Cost (amortised) |
| -------------------------------- | ------ | --------- | ------------------------ |
| Rental                           | 2500   | 12        | $ 2,500.00               |
| Utilities (est'd)                | 450    | 12        | $ 450.00                 |
| Internet                         | 99     | 12        | $ 99.00                  |
| CorpSec                          | 240    | 2         | $ 40.00                  |
| Accounting/Corp Services (est'd) | 3000   | 1         | $ 250.00                 |
| Aircon                           | 980    | 1         | $ 81.67                  |
| Cleaning (est'd)                 | 80     | 26        | $ 173.34                 |
| Income Tax (est'd)               | 600    | 1         | $ 50.00                  |
|                                  |        |           | $ 3,644.01               |

- Aircon cleaning contract discontinued, will request for ad-hoc cleanings moving forward.
- Cleaner needs more specific tasks (see below).

### Space electricity consumption (Valentine)

- **674kWh** total in February 2022, for a total of **~$183.46**.
- Approximately **~$6.55** a day.

- In light of rising oil prices, should we enter into a fixed-price contract with a 3rd party supplier?
  - (V) Used to have wholesale prices, but new contract went back to standard prices.
  - KH is in favour but we need to shop around.
  - (Samuel) Fixed % off tariff might be more worthwhile; fixed $ price might not be a good idea at this point.

- Air-conditioning efficiency:
  - (Huiren/Joyce) Main space air conditioning is quite inefficient.
  - Front room Daikin air conditioning is more efficient.
  - (Huiren) Building a partition along the HW room side was suggested for further renovation work.

### Memberships/Contributions (Valentine)

#### Update on new members and contributions

- New members
  - Samuel
  - Fiq
  - Shi Ling
- Downgrades
  - 1 x 256 -> 0
  - 2 x 64 -> 0
- Upgrades

#### Current membership/contribution breakdown by tiers

| Tier | Count |
| ---- | ----- |
| 16   | 8     |
| 32   | 0     |
| 64   | 14    |
| 128  | 13    |
| 256  | 0     |
| 512  | 1     |

#### Open Collective and GitHub Sponsors

- New avenues for one-off/regular contributions.
- GitHub US$ Sponsors: open to random donors and members as well; only in US$.
  - Monthly sponsors on GitHub not many: ~S$60 after conversion from US$.
- Open Collective S$ subscriptions: probably start of the month; Stripe transaction fees (3.4% + S$0.50).
  - (Samuel) Months may have more than 4 weeks; is there a discrepancy?
  - Many payments seem to come in on 2nd of each month. (Jan 6, Feb 2?)

### Old Hardware Pattern (Jun Hao)

- Ref: [Google Sheets](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hT51CnIa6W7G3U0w4u7avXP5-G7s00iWaU7RDWebWR4/edit?pli=1#gid=0)
- Still happening.
- Chairs among the next to go.

### Further adjustment of membership tiers (Valentine)

- Put on hold for the time being due to lack of other opinions.

### Website revamp (Valentine)

- Need to keep up to date with JavaScript for website.

### House rules (Valentine)

- To be put up on website.
- Open to change proposals next plenum.

### Large group gatherings in a COVID-endemic Singapore (Valentine)

- Mar 15 changes to guidelines open the way for meetups again.
- Space needs to be further prepared before we are ready for meetups.
  - Projector and speakers still not mounted.

### Former plenum items to close (open)

- OHP amplification
  - To be closed: need for reminders before junking things is accepted.
- Storage boxes
  - To be closed: is on website.
- Back room water issue / Shifting of Hardware Room
  - To be closed: see new issue #12 below.
- KGB premises lease renewal / Potential reboot
  - Retain: reboot ideas.
- Governance reboot
  - To be closed: move to membership/restructuring discussion.

- Re: Reboot ideas:
  - (Jen) Amendment: ad-hoc unlock code for temporary members?
  - Rebranding as social enterprise can be done, but qualifying for grants needs work
  - Rename: move to Social Enterprise / Non-profit Model vs. Pte Ltd.
  - Valentine (and Roland?) seemed to be most keen about this.
  - Long-term issue of attracting new membership should take priority.
  - Discuss in BAMF Telegram group?

### Events (open)

- Upcoming events that HackerspaceSG could take part in.
  - Need to confirm if FOSSAsia is virtual or in-person (Apr 4 – 7)
  - Impact Festival Jurong Spring CC (Mar 18 – 20)

## New business

### Ink spill in hardware room (Huiren)

- Some sort of large ink spill on the floor found dried when clearing stuff; did not come from printer.
  - (Huiren, Valentine) Need to prevent recurrence; could use a tupperware or plastic box for ink bag.
  - (Joyce) Could be a leak from a bag which Joyce found.
  - (Valentine) Cleaning it up may be impossible.

### Roof water ingress again? (Huiren)

- Ref: https://github.com/hackerspacesg/KGB/issues/12
- Water on the floor found in November; may be a recurrence but not sure.
- Try to find out whether the leak is a current issue using inkjet print test.
- (Joyce) Fire exit has an area where paint has been damaged by water.
  - May need to check that area as well; fix may not have been completed properly.

### Clean desk policy (Huiren)

- Ref: https://github.com/hackerspacesg/KGB/issues/14
- (Valentine) May be worth the effort to leave a single/dual port USB charger in every table.
- (Huiren) Should not leave cables lying around even if hub is there.

### Holes in the front rooom (Huiren)

- Ref: https://github.com/hackerspacesg/KGB/issues/15
- (Valentine) Hire a contractor to fix the hole by the window.

### Gloomy/dark lighting in the main area (Huiren)

- Ref: https://github.com/hackerspacesg/KGB/issues/16
- Difficult to read even with the lights on; may be an issue if meetups are to resume.
- (Joyce) Suggested plan is to program all lights to be white; see if that improves the ambient brightness.
  - (Joyce + KH) Main room lighting to be fixed before aircon; should be able to fix it by end of the month.
    - (Clarification from Huiren after) The above point might have been a misunderstanding; there is nothing wrong with the aircon.
  - (V) May need to change lighting to brighter LEDs or fluorescent lighting, which could take much longer.

### Smoking in front and back stairwell (Huiren)

- Ref: https://github.com/hackerspacesg/KGB/issues/17
- (Huiren) Adhesive door sealers as suggested in issue.
- Seems to be observed once every two days whenever Huiren pops by (noticed by Junhao, Valentine as well)
- Smell stays in main area.
- Leaving balcony door open for ventilation will let birds and insects in.
- (KH) Check if sealers work.

### Tasks for hired cleaner (Valentine)

- Ref: https://github.com/hackerspacesg/KGB/issues/13
- Lists of tasks assigned but not done? Seems to only mop the floor.
- Much of the slack has been picked up by Huiren.
- Someone (who?) to inform cleaner of updated task list before she resumes.
  - Cleaner did a lot less work since moving to 336D.
  - (Valentine) She helped picked up the slack of the other pre-move cleaner recommended by Min.
- (Jen) Cleaning has been observed to be done, but observations incomplete.

### Membership referral scheme (Valentine)

- Ref: https://github.com/hackerspacesg/admin/issues/4
- Everyone to read the new proposal and come up with comments.

### Carousell account (Valentine)

- (Valentine/Junhao) Create one for items which we can sell, e.g. beanbags.

### Membership marketing (Valentine)

- Discussion postponed to next plenum.

### 344B to 336D move and renovation debrief (open)

- To schedule for a future date, need not be at a plenum.
  - Maybe early April?
- Discuss more on HSG Telegram and mailing list (KH, Valentine to prod)

### Facility maintenance and issues (open)

- Ref: https://github.com/hackerspacesg/KGB/issues

### Miscellaneous HSG administrative matters (open)

- Ref: https://github.com/hackerspacesg/admin/issues

## Any Other Business (AOB)

- (Joyce) Workshops to be held in the space? Still KIV.

## Next meeting

- 2022-04-19 20:00 tentative (tentatively scheduled for 3rd Tuesday of every month, but subject to change depending on the schedule of key people)

### 22:32 Close (approx)
